Create Propose.md which explains how to contribute via GitHub (#125)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/contribute/propose.md

### Getting started

Like any novelty, the process may seem intimidating at first, but the best way to understand this is to try it out in practice.

{% include youtube.html id="DxrLZtABG0E" %}

1. [Create a fork (clone)](#forking-design-guide-repository)
2. [Create a branch](#creating-a-branch)
3. [Manage files](#managing-files)
4. [Apply changes](#applying-changes)
5. [Create a pull request](#creating-a-pull-request)
6. [Applying additional changes](#applying-additional-changes)

#### Forking Design Guide repository

The first step is to fork the Bitcoin Design Guide repository. Forking a repository means that you're creating an exact clone (copy) of the Bitcoin Design Guide locally on your computer and in a cloud on your GitHub.com account.

To fork a repository[^1]:

- Sign in to GitHub desktop
- File > `Clone repository`
- Switch to the URL tab
- Paste `https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/` into the URL field.
- Click `Clone`

{% include picture.html
  image = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/propose/clonerepo.png"
%}

#### Creating a branch

> A branch[^2] allows you to create a copy of a copy. This sets up a _contained area_ where you can apply changes, without going out of sync with the cloned version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A branch[^2] allows you to have a _contained area_ where you can make any changes, without going out of sync with the cloned version.
```

> The cloned version should reside on a `master/main branch`, whereas any changes should be done on separate branches. This isn't a strict rule, it's the best practice that would allow you to easier sync your copy with the original (upstream) version of the design guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cloned version will reside on the `master branch`, while any changes should be done on separate branches. This isn't a strict rule, it's the best practice that would allow you to easier sync your copy with the original (upstream) version of the design guide.
```

{% include picture.html
  image = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/propose/createbranch.png"
%}

#### Managing files

When a new branch is created, while making sure it's selected, click on either `Open in Text Editor` or`Show in explorer` to browse through the folders and files. You can use a search (find) function `Ctrl+F/ cmd+F` to search for a specific keyword that can help identify the file you would like to edit.

#### Applying changes

After identifying a file or folder where you want to make a change, it's time to make your changes to the text, code, or visuals. Whenever you're finished, make sure to `Save` the file (File > Save) in a _text editor_ or use a shortcut `Ctrl+S/cmd+S`.

Please make sure that your changes are consistent with our [content](content-guidelines), [illustration](illustration-guidelines) and [formatting](formatting) guidelines.

{% include youtube.html id="jlt5GDko-to" %}

> ##### Committing

Reviewer: anything going to be stated regarding compression, previewing the change, and the directory for images?

Author: I'm not sure. Compression is something that can change in the future?

What do you mean by `directory for images`?

Building locally and previewing changes is covered in the video. Do you think I need to cover it as a special paragraph? I didn't want to duplicate as I want to refer to that in the review.md where I will tackle the review process.

---
layout: guide
title: Propose a change
description: Contribute to the guide by proposing an improvement you've made or fixing an issue
nav_order: 1
parent: Contribute to guide

> permalink: /guide/contribute/propose

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
permalink: /guide/contribute/propose/
```

> image: /assets/images/guide/contribute/contribute-propose-preview.jpg

Reviewer 2: Image does not exist.

Author: Yup. On purpose, waiting for Jose to send them over, so I'll add them in a later PR or if they're done soon, then in this one.

---

# Proposing a change

> As a free and open-source project, the Bitcoin Design Guide depends on contributions from people all over the internet. Our open-philosophy means that anyone can be a part of the community and improve the guide. No matter if you’re an experienced developer looking to improve the code, a designer looking to enhance visuals, or you just want to fix a typo — your contributions are welcomed.

Author: @ConorOkus Can we somehow simplify that if we want it in? What's suggested is a bit lengthy?

> As a free and open-source project, the Bitcoin Design Guide depends on contributions from people all over the internet. Our open-philosophy means that anyone can be a part of the community and improve the guide. No matter if you’re an experienced developer looking to improve the code, a designer looking to enhance visuals, or you just want to fix a typo — your contributions are welcomed.

Reviewer 3: Yeah I'm just thinking something that indicates we encourage people to also encourage changes to the actual content

> As a free and open-source project, the Bitcoin Design Guide depends on contributions from people all over the internet. Our open-philosophy means that anyone can be a part of the community and improve the guide. No matter if you’re an experienced developer looking to improve the code, a designer looking to enhance visuals, or you just want to fix a typo — your contributions are welcomed.

Author: @ConorOkus That's a good point. I'll tinker a bit on how to add that without making it too long. If you have any ideas meanwhile, please let me know.

> As a free and open-source project, the Bitcoin Design Guide depends on contributions from people all over the internet. Our open-philosophy means that anyone can be a part of the community and improve the guide. No matter if you’re an experienced developer looking to improve the code, a designer looking to enhance visuals, or you just want to fix a typo — your contributions are welcomed.

Reviewer 3: This isn't a deal-breaker I think what you have is good 👍

Anyone can make a difference and become a contributor. This page explains how to make your first contribution by fixing an issue or making an improvement.

## GitHub

The entire source code and content of the guide are hosted in a cloud, [on GitHub](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/). GitHub is a collaborative platform which at its core has a distributed version control system called [Git](https://git-scm.com/). GitHub doesn't just host the code, it also allows smooth collaboration and interaction between contributors.

{% include youtube.html id="0vMBdtOnHJM" %}

### Prerequisites

While advanced users can interact with GitHub through a command line, this guide focuses on showing how to work with Git locally, by using the following software:

1. Create a [GitHub account](https://github.com/)
2. [Download and install GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) (macOS and Windows) / [Linux](https://github.com/shiftkey/desktop)
3. Download and install text editor ([Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/), [Atom](https://atom.io/), etc)

### Identifying what to fix

If you're looking to help, but not sure where to begin:

> - Check issues labeled as [Good first issue](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)

Reviewer 3: I've probably missed it somewhere but have we spoke about/defined what a good first issue is?

Author: The `Good first issue` is something quite standard on GitHub. It's usually an issue that's good for first-time contributors. Usually a small fix and easy to understand, actionable issue.

Reviewer: + self contained tasks - they have little to no dependencies.

Like any novelty, the process may seem intimidating at first, but the best way to understand this is to try it out in practice.

{% include youtube.html id="DxrLZtABG0E" %}

1. [Create a fork (clone)](#forking-design-guide-repository)
2. [Create a branch](#creating-a-branch)
3. [Manage files](#managing-files)
4. [Apply changes](#applying-changes)
5. [Create a pull request](#creating-a-pull-request)
6. [Applying additional changes](#applying-additional-changes)

#### Forking Design Guide repository

The first step is to fork the Bitcoin Design Guide repository. Forking a repository means that you're creating an exact clone (copy) of the Bitcoin Design Guide locally on your computer and in a cloud on your GitHub.com account.

To fork a repository[^1]:

- Sign in to GitHub desktop
- File > `Clone repository`
- Switch to the URL tab
- Paste `https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/` into the URL field.
- Click `Clone`

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/propose/clone-repository.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/propose/clone-repository@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Cloning a repository"
   width = 400
   height = 400
%}

#### Creating a branch

> A branch[^2] allows you to have a _contained area_ where you can make any changes, without going out of sync with the cloned version.

Reviewer 3: What does [^2] do? Seems to link to Git docs, but how? Never seen that before lol

Author: Hey it's a footnote that gets added at the bottom of the article :smile_cat: 
![Screenshot from 2021-01-21 17-45-41](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36959754/105382652-98ef8c00-5c10-11eb-9450-5b9a39f35251.png)

The cloned version will reside on the `master branch`, while any changes should be done on separate branches. This isn't a strict rule, it's the best practice that would allow you to easier sync your copy with the original (upstream) version of the design guide.

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/propose/create-branch.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/propose/create-branch@2x.png"
   alt-text = "Creating a branch"
   width = 800
   height = 542
%}

#### Managing files

> When a new branch is created, while making sure it's selected, click on either `Open in Text Editor` or`Show in explorer` to browse through the folders and files. You can use a search (find) function `Ctrl+F/ cmd+F` to search for a specific keyword that can help identify the file you would like to edit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a new branch is created, while making sure it's selected, click on either `Open in Text Editor` or`Show in explorer` to browse through the folders and files. You can use a search (find) function (`Ctrl+F` or `cmd+F` in most editors) to search for a specific keyword that can help identify the file you would like to edit.
```

#### Applying changes

> After identifying a file or folder where you want to make a change, it's time to make your changes to the text, code, or visuals. Whenever you're finished, make sure to `Save` the file (File > Save) in a _text editor_ or use a shortcut `Ctrl+S/cmd+S`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After identifying a file or folder where you want to make a change, it's time to make your changes to the text, code, or visuals. Whenever you're finished, make sure to `Save` the file (File > Save) in a _text editor_ or use the shortcuts `Ctrl+S` or `cmd+S`.
```

Just for consistency on how we show shortcuts on the review page.

Please make sure that your changes are consistent with our [content](content-guidelines), [illustration](illustration-guidelines) and [formatting](formatting) guidelines.

{% include youtube.html id="TjydTyOK4Wo" %}

##### Committing

Saving changes in a text editor automatically triggers the GitHub Desktop application to showcase them. You can review the changes quickly, and then make a commit[^3].

Commits should contain _meaningful changes_ grouped together.

**Do**
- Add good textual context to your commit

**Don't**

> - Abuse the commit function to gain commits, not every change should be a commit.

Reviewer 2: What is gaining commits? Does it refer to somebody trying to beef up their Github stats?

Author: Correct, should I remove it, as it may be irrelevant? Commits can always be squashed.

Reviewer 2: Probably too advanced for an introductory page. I'd remove it.

Author: 9e65bf092d0be6b5c5ecafc0f015c17407fcb7aa
